[MUSIC]
>> Brian Lonsdorf: I'm going to
go through Either kind of fast.
What other talk was that, I don't know.
Anyway, I gotta dim the screen so
I don't get distracted.
Okay, so Either is just like Maybe but
it's used for error handling.
Which is kind of neat, in a pure
functional way you can handle errors.
Now, it's like maybe, but
we do have two subclasses this time.
It's not gonna be just a maybe null or
maybe something else.
And if you see other implementations of
maybe, you're gonna see just and nothing.
And it's gonna look a lot
more like either here.
So, let's look at how this works.
Just like maybe in container, if I run
over right, the x becomes the two.
And I add one to it.
Beautiful.
Left just like a maybe no it
does not run it at all but
what's cool about a left is it
has some error message in it.
Just kind of embedded in the type.
It's not going on the function but
it will run the message,
it will return it with a message in there.
So I could use that for errors so I could
say if it's good keep running it with
the value inside if not just return
a left with the error message in it and
those two types map works
differently with both types.
So if I decide somewhere
in my app to return a left
boom app stops running altogether.
Error message ends up
propagating to the end.
Now we're just talking about that you may
or may not have the value in a maybe.
You might have a left and you might
have a right, and you don't know.
And you're telling your app that,
and your coding to that.
You're writing a safe app Aware of
the fact that may or may not be there.
Now if you say like, yeah,
I don't want that anymore.
I want to go back to [LAUGH] how it was.
You can go back to being unsafe and
you can get the value out.
You really can.
There are some functions
that will do that.
There is a lowercase either that
takes two functions to run.
One on If it's a left side.
One of it it's a right side.
It will actually pick apart the type and
get you back out.
Same with maybe.
It will take a function to run
if it's null or otherwise.
Cuz sometimes you wanna take some action.
You don't wanna just ignore
the rest of your app.
You want to take some action if it's null,
or take some action if it's a left, but
for the most part,
these abstractions are wonderful.
And you shouldn't be using those
functions, that's the wrong way to do it,
if you have to use one of those functions,
it's like 2% of the time.
And you're probably doing it wrong unless
there's a specific action you want to
take, and so
just return the error message.
Okay.
So let's look at how this works a little
bit more this should be kind
of easier to understand
at this point it's just like a maybe
just like an identity just like a list.
We're saying but
it's a little bit more complicated
because there's two types involved.
It's left and its right.
So if I say he determine
the age of this user and
then we'll add one to it because
I don't know what else to do.
I'm bored.
I've run out of examples
that are interesting.
But the main thing is.
It says if it does have an age return it,
and if it doesn't,
tell us we couldn't get agent and
boom map just does the right thing.
We're either going to add one to the age,
or we're not going to get anything out,
and it's just going to return
that error message back.
Do you guys see how that
works as an error handling?
>> Speaker 2: Hey, Brian there's
a couple of questions in chat here.
One on what's right and left and
whether they're part of the point freelib.
>> Brian Lonsdorf: Okay,
all these libraries will be included
in the examples and in the demo app so
you can look at them further.
But these are two subclasses
of the either library.
We're using folktale, just for
those who are impatient, for this one And
so, yeah, it's folktales either library,
two subclasses.
>> Speaker 2: There is another question,
is right kinda like my func or
val while left is my val and
my function.
>> Brian Lonsdorf: Hey, hey, hey, nice.
No, I at some point put an either up.
That was wrong and
it messed up a lot of people's brains.
So, sorry about that.
Either is specifically like left will
never run, it has the error in it.
Right will always run.
You're good.
But it is a disjunction operator.
You've got left or right.
It's just that when you map over it,
you never run the left.
So, it's disjunction in that right.
You know what I'm saying,
it's the or in that sense,
but why are they called left and right?
I don't know.
Anyway [LAUGH] Left and
right is, I should tell you.
Left and right,
it either has two properties.
It's left and it's right.
It's x and y.
I don't know.
So it's either the left side or
the right side of the either.
If you think it is an or
operator, it's left or right.
Okay, moving on I'm gonna spend too
much time on either because you kind of
just understand that.
Hey, it's gonna run on or right or
it's going to run errands not gonna run on
the left and just remember the part
that top line And determine the age
that if you wanted to run return a right
if, you wanted to stop or turn left.
There's not much more to it and
the reason I spend so
much time on it is when you're doing
the synchronous stuff which we are all
the time always kind of isn't as useful
as when you're doing sequence stuff.